Add Android TV 0.16 blog post (#775)
jellyfin/jellyfin.org: blog/2023/12-10-android-tv-16/index.mdx

---
title: Android TV version 0.16
authors:
  - nielsvanvelzen
slug: androidtv-v0.16.0
tags: [release, android-tv]
---

It has been a busy year with a lot of work on the Android TV app. After an extended beta period today is finally the day to share this work
to the public. Read along to learn everything about improved music playback, the new screensaver and more!

> \- Niels

Reviewer: I wouldn't bother with the sign here since your name is at the top implying you wrote it all, but I won't object ;-)

Author: You started it in the [very first blog post](https://jellyfin.org/posts/new-website) when we launched the new website! I've done this in most of my recent blog posts now so I'll keep doing it :p

Reviewer 2: Ditto

{/* truncate */}

## Significant changes

> In this post I will focus on a few of the popular and significant changes. As always a lot more changes were made both visible and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this post I will focus on a few of the popular and significant changes. As always, a lot more changes were made both visible and
```

invisible; check out the full changelog to discover the full extent of this release.

### Music playback

Playing media is the key feature of Jellyfin. Up until now the Android TV app had many issues playing every possible format. The code

> was also hard to work with making it challenging to fix the issues or implement new features. To encounter this we decided to rewrite all

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
was also hard to work with making it challenging to fix the issues or implement new features. To counter this we decided to rewrite all
```

> playback code completely from scratch. In this release the initial results are ready for daily use and playing music will use the new

Reviewer 4: >  rewrite all playback code completely from

or

>  rewrite all music related playback code completely from

Author: No, everything. All old code will be gone. With 0.16 we just release it for music and 0.17 will use it for everything, completely removing the old junk.

Reviewer 4: Then i would make it a bit more clear, as this paragraph is below the music header.

Author: I think it's already clear enough, the paragraph starts talking about all playback code for some backstory and ends with "In this release the initial results are ready for daily use and playing music will use the new playback code!".

playback code!

While a lot of this work is not directly noticable when using the app, some of it is. Crashes should now be uncommon, starting music is
faster and the remote control now responds more reliably. We've also added media sessions, this allows you to play/pause from other
applications on your TV or even your smartphone!

Improved codec detection should reduce transcoding and use direct play more often resulting in faster playback with less strain on the
Jellyfin server. We already have plans to improve this even more and add preferences to fine-tune this for your specific devices. Other

> planned features include showing lyrics, enabling SyncPlay and support gapless playback.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
planned features include showing lyrics, enabling SyncPlay and gapless playback support.
```

> Work has already started to also enable video playback based on this new code so we can remove the old and add all kinds of new features

Reviewer 2: >  so we can remove the old

The old what?

```suggestion
Work has already started to rework video playback based on this new code so we can add all kinds of new features
```

Author: Updated the entire sentence to

> Work has already started to rework video playback based on this new code so we can add all kinds of new features with ease in a shared code base for both video and audio playback.

code base for both video and audio playback.

![Screenshot of the screensaver during music playback in the Android TV app](./screensaver-music.png)

### Screensaver

The screensaver has received some nice additions. It was redesigned to be faster, with better animations and a much nicer appearance.
Alongside this redesign, new functionality was added. Music playback has been added to the screensaver, replacing the old screensaver from
the 'now playing' screen. Additionally, the screensaver is now enabled by default when the app is open, eliminating the need to enable it
system-wide.

And the best part: the screensaver now works when the video player is paused!

![Screenshot of the screensaver in the Android TV app](./screensaver.png)

### Search

> The search screen was partially rewritten to improve the performance. It will now cancel any pending search requests while typing and use

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The search screen was partially rewritten to improve performance. It will now cancel any pending search requests while typing and use
```

> a different method for getting the results. With these changes a search on large servers will be noticeably faster and no flickering occurs

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a different method for getting the results. With these changes, a search on large servers will be noticeably faster and no flickering occurs
```

Reviewer 3: missed this before. you got future tense and present tense in the same sentence. "will be" and "flickering"
```suggestion
a different method for getting the results. With these changes, a search on a large server is now noticeably faster and no flickering occurs
```
